Hunger is welcome back.
All right.
So we're in the homestretch here with content type templates that you can use to kind of jumpstart your
process.
So far we've discussed content types that help us answer questions present lists full of information
and then finally last lecture we covered Content-Type to help us tell stories about ourselves and about
our customers.
Now we're going to wrap up with content types that go all in on one specific topic.
We're going to talk about number one many sites.
Number two ultimate guides while the other content types offer specific focus on a need a story or a
scenario.
These content types provide everything supposedly you need to know about one specific issue or topic.
It's more than just a 10 ways to create a what ever post or a case study about a client who found success
one time.
Those content types have their place but sometimes the reader needs the whole picture top to bottom.
They want something more comprehensive.
So let's start off here talking about many sites.
Now many sites are a little hard to pin down because they can be a lot of different things.
But I'll try my best to explain this.
Usually when we think of content we think of things you create on your site or on a community site that
gets people to go to your page and or like your brand with many sites.
The goal is still the same but we don't create content on our site.
Instead we conjure up an idea for an entirely separate web site with its own functions and potentially
its own branding.
The idea here is that you can create a small tool with its own site or a quick site that capitalizes
on something topical.
Then you promote that site itself and it's all tied together into your larger site.
I know maybe that doesn't necessarily make sense but let's go over some examples.
For example in December I launched a site called the 25 days of ideas.
You can look at it WW day.
Twenty five days of ideas dot com.
Now this is not part of my broader Evan Kimbrell dot com site and in fact you wouldn't immediately know
that they were related in that site that I made I made a Christmas themed once a day advent calendar
of videos that explain how to come up with business ideas as you do.
I gave it away for free and as a result I got exposure to something like that was like 40000 new users
and then many of those people then bounced around the pages and even commercial dotcom and then bought
of course I know this because I set up campaigns specifically tracking this.
So that's the idea.
Make a tool or a gag or just something really useful and launch it like it were a completely separate
thing.
Now a classic example of a mini site that just did insanely well was done by a company called HubSpot.
Now HubSpot created the Hubspot marketing grader.
If you went there you wouldn't necessarily know that it's part of HubSpot.
It looks like its own Web site but it was brilliantly simple HubSpot sells software that helps you automate
and manage your website marketing and sales Buika.
They created a tool where you could put in your website and that tool or web site would automatically
graded on how well your site would perform on a number of different things like no load time user conversion
things that marketers care about.
Now that's a really helpful tool.
Digne have you basically free advice that you might pay a consultant to do.
And guess what if you use it then HubSpot gets your email and throughout out the tool you get subtle
prompts to use their service because it's basically the antidote to the problems they just highlighted.
Web site greater believe it or not and this is on the downlow is one of HubSpot largest sources of leads
for their software.
It's actually a really big deal for the there wasn't just some one off thing.
It's a good like 40 50 percent of their leads if you want to catch many sites in the wild.
Check out product on almost every day we see a site created that's very basic but is designed to get
shared in adjacent promote the company that then created it.
Many sites obviously take more time and require more fluency with putting together web sites but you'll
find that they're much easier to promote and can be a great way to highlight your brand in general.
It's a lot easier to say look at this web site I just discovered that does this crazy thing or gives
you this great information versus this blog post that a company that's clearly trying to sell me something.
It's a lot easier to share and talk about and have more buzz about the first one.
So the mini site is its own thing it's a tool or a site that stands on its own but still supports your
business or brand in a way.
Well the other type of content that we're going to talk about here is the ultimate guide and it's a
little bit of a departure from this.
Dare I say we're saving the best for last.
Why is this one the best.
Because it's so it's the ultimate guide.
There's nothing better than that right.
Well do a search on Google if you want to just just use the phrase ultimate guide and you'll surprisingly
find it a lot of goaltimate guides out there now is there something more ultimate than an ultimate guide.
Maybe the immortal guide or the Super-Duper guide should we look for the ultimate guide to ultimate
guides.
Oh wow.
Ultimate Guide inception.
Anyway I got off on a tangent there.
Sometimes our audience needs more information than a listicle can provide.
Sometimes they're not in search of something specific.
They need everything.
They don't know anything about a topic and they want the full rundown everything to do with web design
from choosing new web host to maintaining it over time or everything to do with cutting up Thanksgiving
dinner from choosing your turkey to enjoying those scrumptious leftovers and some of the weirder things
people eat.
We're talking about topics and concepts of multiple levels many pieces to them and we need a content
type that can bring it all together.
That's the ultimate guide and an Ultimate Guide is a promise more than anything it's a promise that
you will deliver everything the reader needs to understand a topic.
If you're running the ultimate guide to Instagram you'd better cover basic features.
How to use them secret tips shortcuts expert advice all the information one would need to understand
and use it really well.
You could write an ultimate guide to your own product that be easy enough and perhaps it would be a
good start depending on how popular product is and how much depth there is to it.
But like we've said a few times before in the series Don't forget that you can actually think externally
and you think externally.
That's when you bridge the gap between your interests and your cost.
The customers who don't know use interests.
Could you create an Ultimate Guide for people who work in your industry.
Your ultimate guide to being a bartender your customers are a marketer an app developer a puppet tear
a product manager or whatever.
Imagine if you gave your customers an ultimate guide on how to do their job.
That would be pretty ultimate.
Maybe you want to create something more focused on an action.
So what verb works for your audience.
Do they create.
Do they build.
Do they write.
Do they support then.
How about an ultimate guide to creating or building or writing or supporting you fill in the blank.
Consider your audience and figure out what Ultimate Guide makes the most sense for them.
Here's an example that could help Zappia as a company that's all about productivity.
I don't know why it's not pronounced Zep's here because they make things called zaps therefore it Zappia.
Don't ask me questions.
They make a tool allowing you to automate things across multiple tools.
I know the brain Mussar basically think of them as like the app that allows you to transfer information
between two other apps or to take one thing from an app and then send a signal to another one.
I want to save something and every now and then I want that to print out on my printer without me having
to do it.
You can create a zap to do that now and their content marketing strategy.
They created a bunch of ultimate guides including the ultimate guide to remote work CRM software email
marketing customer support and a whole bunch of other ones.
There is a lot of info on each one as there should be.
They are ultimate guides right after all.
But why exactly would zap you do that.
While many of their customers have not just an interest but a need for automation in their lives automation
tools like Zappia make their jobs easier.
So in Zappia creates an ultimate guide with them in mind.
It provides even more ways they can use their tools and increase productivity.
It's like training and coaching content combined with secret tips and hacks.
In the end if you're say a support person and you read this guide you should come away with two things.
A better understanding of how to do your job and to trust in the people who put the guide together.
That trust then can lead to longer relationships that have more to do with purchases and money.
And that is another reason why ultimate guides can be so powerful.
All right so there you go.
In total in these videos you were 10 Content-Type.
You can use for different purposes.
You could actually call it an ultimate guide to content types.
I don't mind.
Go ahead call it.
But here's another twist you can think about.
You could take one or more of these and make them but you might even get bigger results if you combine
them.
Yes.
And for graphic that was actually a listicle or company stories from Wisdom's that were actually more
like company stories mixed with many case studies.
Don't be afraid to color outside the lines here.
Perhaps your round up interview idea turns into a listicle or the makings of an ultimate guide.
Seek out existing examples of these types and you will find some inspiration.
It's not hard to do.
Now did we forget some contests in our round up of contents.
Yes of course we did but these ones are common and popular and they're easy to replicate.
There's other ones out there.
If we had a 50 hour long course I should on and along with course will be.
Maybe we'd cover them but these are the ones I've identified that work well consistently and are easy
to do.
And while you don't like it then make your own list.
Just leave me alone.